Assignment 1   
1. What is server? 
           Device which provide service to other device or computer
           
2. What is cloud computing? 
           Virtual collections of data center
           
3. What are the disadvantages before cloud? 
        speed , accuracy , maintanance , monitering , high cost. 
        
4. What are the advantages of cloud?
        monitering and maintanance is easy , to aviod packate loss .
        
5. Explain different service models of the cloud? 
                Infrastucture as a Service (IaaS)
                Platform as a Service (PaaS)
                Software as a Service(Saas)
                
6. Explain Different types of cloud ? 
      Private , Public, hybrid.
      
7. What is ?(Types of virtualization)---->Task 
          Dividing single H/w into multiple resouce call virtulization .
          Types:Hosted hypervisor 
                Bare Metal
8. Why cloud computing? 
      to maintain and moniter service easily , to save cost, to maintain traffic , save loss , no connectivity issue .
      
9. Which are the different types of cloud providers? 
    AWS, Azure IBM .
10. What are the difference between cloud computing and On premises?
    
      

Assignment 2 

1. What is Region?
         regoin consist on data center , its seprated goegraphical are , each regoin consist of different AZ
2. What is Avalability zones?
          Each AZ consist of one or more data center to store data .
3. What is EC2?
       Cloud service provided by aws Amazon Elastic cloud computing is a server which is use to store data .
4. What is EC2 Instance?
      Virtual server fot running aws infrastucture , it provide resizeable compute.
5. What are the 7 steps to create the instance
     1. Choose AMI 
     2. Choose Instance Type
		 3. Configure Instance
	   4. Add Storage
	   5. Add Tags
     6. Configure Security Group
	   7. Review
      
6. How to create the instance Hands on ?
      
7. What is security groups?
    acts as a virtual firewall for your EC2 instances for controlling incoming and outgoing traffic.
  
Assignment 3 

1.What is AMI?

  Amazon machine Image
2.What is user data ?
      Use to install somethings on server command while creating instance .
      
3.How to create instance using User data hands on?

4.What are the types of instances?
  1)Genaral Puspose 
  2)Compute instance
  3)Memory instance
  4)Stoagre instance 
  5)GPU
  
5.How to launch on instance using your own AMI Hands on?
    Creating Own AMI and while creating AMI select OWN AMI option .

Assignment 4 

1.What is IAM service in AWS Cloud?
        IAM provide access to user to use perticular service in aws .
        
2.Explain different types of user accounts in AWS Cloud?
      Root user 
      IAM user.
        
3.Are root users and IAM users the same?
        NO root user have more permission then IAM users.
        
4.How to control Authorization in AWS IAM?
                By Using secure key 
                By using MFA 
                    i)MFA - google autheticator 
                    ii)Authy
                    
5.What is AWS account root user?
          root user have all the access to do all task.
          
6.What are AWS policies?
      Policies also know as permissions which entity or resouce is having . 

7.How to create an AWS IAM policy?
          Logni to console ->choose policy->create policy
8.What is the importance of IAM?
        permission/policy and MFA .
9.Could you describe IAM in your own words?
          IAM is used for better security reasons to ensure login user is the correct one .
10.What are some reasons companies need IAM?
           Security purpose .     
Assignment 5 

1.What is MFA?
  Multi-factor authentication , use for confirmation of user.
2.How to create a MFA to the users hands on?
         by scan QR code from MFA section in aws console  
3.What is AWS CLI?
          aws cli mean commmand line interface .
4.What are the different types of securing the users/root account?Explain
        MFA - dual authnetication after entering password 
        Policies -policy must be set to check which user have which access 

Assignment 6 

1.Which are the different types of accessing your AWS management console?
      AWS CLI , Putty , Mobaxterm port
2.What is AWS CLI?
       Aws cli mean commmand line interface which can be use to access AWS managerment console .

3.What are the different guidelines that you must follow while creating the AWS IAM?
      
4.What is IAM Roles?
     Permission to be allow use to do the perticular task

5.What is Access Key and Secret key in AWS?
          Both user to sign in AWS console
  
6.Why we need  Access Key and Secret key in AWS?
          Both user to sign in AWS console
Assignment 7 

1. What is IAM Security tools?

2. What is IAM Credential report?

3. What is IAM access advisor?

4. List all the IAM best practices?

5. What is AWS Storage?

6. Which are the different types of storage in AWS?
    Elastic Block storage   (EBS)
    Elastic File storage    (EFS)
    Elastic Object storage   (EOB)

7. What is EBS?
      Elastic Block store use to store data .

8.Hands on creating volume and attaching volume to the instance?

Assignment 8 

1.What is EBS Snapshots?
      Use to take data backup .
    
2. Hands on creating snapshot using the EBS volumes .

3. Hands on creating AMI using the snapshots.

4. What is EFS?
      Elastic file store use to store files.

5.What is the differnce between EBS and EFS?
   Data stored in EBS remains in the same availability zone and multiple replicas are created within the same availability zone whereas in EFS the data stored remains in the same region and multiple replicas are created within the same region.
